# eDNN-EG
## A computational framework based on ensemble deep neural networks for essential genes identification

Essential genes contain key information of genomes that, therefore, could be the key to a comprehensive understanding of life and evolution. Because of their importance, the studies of essential genes have been considered as the necessary problem in computational biology. Computational methods for identifying essential genes have increasingly become popular to reduce the cost and time-consuming of traditional experiments. Few computational models are addressing this problem, however, the performance is still not satisfactory because of high dimensional features and the use of traditional machine learning algorithms. Thus, there is a need to create a novel model to improve the predictive performance of this problem from a feature set of DNA sequence information. This study takes the advantages of natural language processing (NLP) model in learning biological words via treating treat them as natural language words. To learning the NLP features, supervised learning model was consequentially employed by ensemble deep neural network. Our proposed method could identify essential genes with sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, MCC, and AUC of 60.2%, 84.6%, 76.3%, 0.449, and 0.757, respectively. The overall performance outperforms the single models without ensemble as well as the state-of-the-art predictor on the same benchmark dataset. It indicates the effectiveness of the proposed method in determining essential genes in particular and other sequencing problems in general.
